Lesson 131>>>>>>>>>>
So now let's talk about Amazon S3-Security.

The first part is User-Based.

So as a user you can have IAM policies that you

and this IAM policy is going to authorize

which API calls should be allowed for a specific IAM user.

You can also have Resource-Based Security.

So this is new.

We can use what's called S3 Bucket policies

and there are bucket wide rules

that you can assign directly from the S3 console.

And this will allow, for example, a specific user to come in

or allow a user from another account,

this is called cross-account

to access your S3 Buckets.

This is also how we'll make our S3 Buckets public

as I will show you in a minute.

Next, you have the Object Access Control List or ACL,

they're finer grain security and they can be disabled.

And if you need to go

at the Bucket level, you can have Buckets ACL

which is way less common also can be disabled.

And the most common way now to do security

on an Amazon S3 Bucket is to use Bucket policies.

So in which situation can an IAM principle

can access an S3 object?

Well, if the IAM permissions allow it

or if the resource policies allows it

and that there is no explicit deny in the action,

then the IAM principle can access the S3 object

on the specified API call.

So we'll have a look at these use cases in a minute.

Finally, another way to do security on Amazon S3

is to encrypt the objects using encryption keys.

So what does S3 Bucket policy actually look like?

Because this is the focus of S3-Security for us.

So they are JSON based policies and they look like this.

So this is JSON documents and it's quite easy to read.

So the first thing is that you have a resource block

and the resource tells the policy

what buckets and object this policy applies on.

And in here we can see that this applies to every object

within the example Bucket,

this is what the star is for.

Next we have the effect.

So Allow or Deny, and what do we Allow or Deny?

Well, we Deny actions.

So we have a set of APIs we can either Allow or Deny

and in this example, the action we Allow is GetObject.

So this allows anyone thanks to the principle,

the principle presents the account or the user

to apply the policy to so principle is star.

So, here we allow anyone with a star to GetObject,

so to retrieve an object from my example Bucket

with a start, that means any object within it.

So therefore this S3 Bucket, is setting public reads

on all objects inside my Buckets.

So we can use an S3 Bucket policy

to grant public access to the Bucket

as the one shown on the right hand side

or to force objects to be encrypted at upload

or to grant access to another account.

So let's have a look at the situation.

So here is a Bucket Policy for Public Access.

So we have a user, it's on the worldwide web

it's a website visitor

and he wants to access files within our S3 Buckets.

So we'll attach an S3 Bucket policy

that allows public access.

This is the one you've seen in the previous slide.

And once this Bucket policy is attached to the S3 Bucket

then we can access any objects within it.

That's what we'll see in the hands-on.

But another way to do it

is that if you have a user within your account,

so it's an IAM user

and that user wants to access Amazon S3,

then we can assign IAM permissions

to that user through a policy.

And therefore because the policy allows access

to the S3 Buckets

then the user can access our S3 Buckets right now.

If we have an EC2 instance and want to give access

from the EC2 instance into the S3 Buckets,

we've seen that IAM users are not appropriate.

We need to use IAM roles instead.

So we create an EC2 instance role

with the correct IAM permissions

and that EC2 instance will be able to access

the Amazon S3 Buckets.

More advanced,

if we want to allow Cross-Account Access,

then we must use the Bucket Policy.

So we have an IAM user in another AWS account

and we create an S3 Bucket policy

that allows Cross-Account Access for that specific IAM user

and therefore the IAM user will be able to make API calls

into our S3 Buckets.

Other security settings you need to know about

is that there is the Bucket settings

for Block Public Access.

So this is what we set to own when we created the Buckets

and these settings were invented by AWS

as a extra layer of security to prevent company data leaks.

So even though you would set an S3 Bucket policy

that would make it public,

if these settings are enabled,

the Bucket will never be public.

So this is to prevent data leaks.

So if you know that your Bucket should never be public,

then leave these settings on

and you have this level of security

against people who would set the wrong S3 Bucket policy.

And if you know that none

of your S3 Buckets ever should be public,

then you can set this at the account level.

Okay, so that's it for S3-Security.

Now let's go in the hands-on to practice.



Lesson 132>>>>>>>>>
So now let's talk about how Amazon S3

can be used to create aesthetic websites.

So S3 can host static websites

and have them accessible on the internet

and the website URL will be depending

on the AWS region where you create this,

either this or that.

And they look very, very similar as you can tell.

But the only difference is that here, you have a dash

and here, you have a dot.

It doesn't really matter for you to remember this

but just so you know, here it is.

So we have an extra bucket

and it will contain files, maybe HTML files, maybe images

and then we're going to enable this to be compatible

with hosting a website.

So this is what it will look like with the corresponding URL

and then the user will access our S3 buckets.

But this will not work

if we don't have public reads enabled on our S3 buckets.

And this is why in the first place,

in the last lecture we learned about S3 bucket policies.

So if you have a 403 forbidden error

after enabling your S3 bucket for reads,

then that means that your bucket is not public.

Therefore, you must attach an S3 bucket policy

that allows it to be public.

So that's it for this short lecture,

now let's go into the hands on to practice this.


Lesson 133>>>>>>>>>
Okay, so let's enable our bucket

to be a website.

But first, I'm going to upload one more file here,

I'm going to upload my beach.jpg file into our buckets.

Okay, this is done, so we have two files into our buckets,

and let's go into Properties, scroll down,

and all the way down

you will find the static website hosting.

So click on Edit,

and here we will enable static website hosting.

We want to host a static website

and we need to specify an index document.

So I will say, index.html

and we will have to upload that file.

This is the default or homepage of the websites.

As you can see here, we also have a little warning sign

saying, hey, by the way

if you want to enable this as a website endpoint

you must make all your content publicly readable.

And we've done this in the previous lecture, so that's good.

Okay, so let's go and save this.

So this is saved, and go back into our objects.

And the one thing that's missing here

is that index, that HTML file.

So let's go to upload this,

we Add files and then I will click on index.html

and then upload, close it.

It's created, so now back into Properties,

let's scroll all the way down,

and you see now that's under static website hosting,

we have a bucket website endpoint.

So I copy this URL, paste it,

and I get, I love coffee.

Hello world!

And my coffee.jpg file.

So this working, so this is my index at HTML file,

and if I right click on this and open this image in new tab,

we have the public URL of our coffee.jpg.

So this is working,

and by the way if you wanted to change the coffee for beach,

well under beach.jpg we can see as well

this beach image right here.

So that means that everything is working,

our S3 bucket is enabled for static website hosting,

and thanks to the S3 bucket policy being public,

we can see all these files.

So we're good to go, I hope you like this lecture

and I will see you in the next lecture.

Lesson 134>>>>>>>>>

So, now let's talk about versioning

in Amazon S3.

Because we've seen how to create a website,

but it would be nice to be able to update it in a safe way.

So, you can version your files in Amazon S3,

and this is a setting you have to enable

at the bucket level.

So, we have my bucket and it's enabled with versioning.

So, whenever a user uploads a file,

it's going to create a version of that file

at the selected key.

And then should we re-upload the same key,

should we overwrite that file,

then instead it's going to create a version two,

and then a version three, and so on.

So, therefore, it is best practice to version your buckets.

Why?

Well, the first thing is that it protects

against unintended deletes.

So, for example, if you delete a file version,

actually you just add a delete marker

and therefore you can restore versions

that were previously there instead.

You can also easily roll back to a previous version.

So, if you want to go back to what happened two days ago,

you can take a file and roll it back.

So, there are some notes you need to be aware of.

First of all, that any file that is not versioned

prior to enabling versioning will have the version null.

And also that if you suspend versioning,

it does not delete the previous version,

so, it's a safe operation.

Okay, so now let's go into the console

and have a look at how we can use versioning.

Lesson 135>>>>>>>>>
So now let's play with S3 versioning.

And so first you need to go into the properties

and then we have a bucket versioning setting.

We're going to edit this and we're going to enable it.

And this is to enable bucket versioning.

And therefore any files we override now

is just going to add versions into our buckets.

So this is good.

Let's go into our objects

and say we want to update our website.

So let's go back, find the website URL.

It is right here.

Okay, so we have "I love coffee"

but let's say we want to write, "I really love coffee"

so therefore let's go back into here, our file.

And I'm going to edit it

and say I really love coffee.

I've saved it.

And now I upload this file again.

So I'm going to add a file and it will be my index.html.

And now we have updated content in that file.

So if I upload it.

It's successful.

So now it's been overwritten.

If I go into my first webpage and refresh this,

I get "I REALLY love coffee."

But what did happen in the back?

Well, if we go here

and we have here this toggle "Show versions"

we're going to show the actual version ID with the files.

And so we can notice a few things.

Number one, the files that we had uploaded before

such as the beach.jpg and the coffee.jpg

have a null version id.

That's because they were uploaded

before we had enabled versioning.

But this file index.html as you can see has two versions.

One has version ID null, which is the file we had uploaded

before enabling versioning.

But the file we uploaded just right now has a version ID.

And therefore, by updating this file

and uploading it into our S3 bucket,

we have created a new version ID.

So this is something you can only see if you

enable this toggle.

So now thanks to versioning

what we can do is we can actually roll-back our page.

So we have, "I REALLY love coffee"

but we wanna go back to "I love coffee."

So how do we do this while we click on

this specific version ID

Okay, so make sure that "Show versions" is enabled

and then we're going to delete.

And here we have to delete a specific version ID

of our object.

And therefore when we delete a specific version ID

of our object, it's called a permanent delete.

So it's a destructive operation, it cannot be undone.

And so if we're sure, we type permanently delete

in this text box and click on delete objects.

And now if you go back, as we can see,

we are back with the previous date of our bucket.

And therefore if I refresh this page,

I just get "I love coffee."

But what if we disable "Show versions"?

So now we just have our objects

and I'm going to take this coffee.jpg file,

and I will delete it itself.

So this time we don't actually delete

the underlying version ID,

we delete by adding a delete marker.

And so it doesn't actually delete the underlying object

as we'll see.

Let's just type delete this time.

It's not permanently delete, it's just delete

and we delete the object.

Perfect.

So now if we have a look at it from within our bucket,

it looks like the coffee.jpg file is done.

But if we click on "Show versions"

we see that we have a delete marker on our coffee.jpg file

with this version ID.

And the real, the previous, at least, coffee.jpg file

is still in our buckets

but it's being overwritten at least right now

from a version perspective by a delete marker.

So back into our webpage, if I refresh this page

and I refresh it by forcing a refresh,

by doing a Command + Shift + R to force a refresh

then we see that the image is not available.

So how do we get back this image?

And if I just try to, for example,

open this image in the new tab, it doesn't work.

I get a "404 Not Found."

So instead to get back the previous objects

I can click on this delete marker

and I'm going to delete the delete marker.

So I will permanently delete this delete marker.

And the effect of that is that it will restore

the previous version of my object

which is this one from before.

So back into my webpage, if I refresh it now

we can see that the coffee.jpg file is there.

So you can play around with versioning

you can add as many file version as you want.

You can start deleting them and view what happens.

But I hope you like this lecture

and I will see you in the next lecture.

Lesson 136>>>>>>>>>
Now let's talk about Amazon S3 Replication,

and there are two flavors of it.

So CRR is for cross-region replication

and SRR is for same-region replication.

The idea is that we have an S3 Bucket in one region

and a target S3 Bucket in another region,

and we want to set up asynchronous replication

between these two buckets.

So, to do so, we first must enable Versioning

in the source and the destination buckets.

And if we do CRR, so cross-region replication,

the two regions must be different.

If we do SRR, the two regions are the same.

Now, it's possible for you to have these buckets

in different AWS accounts

and copying happens asynchronously.

So the replication mechanism happens behind the scenes,

in the background.

And to make replication work,

you must give proper IAM permissions

to the S3 service so that it has the permission

to read and write from specified buckets.

So the use cases for replication are manyfold.

The first one is that if you use cross-region replication,

this can be helpful for compliance

or for providing lower latency access to your data

because it's in another region,

or to replicate data across accounts.

For SRR, or same-region replication,

this can be very helpful to aggregate logs

across multiple S3 Buckets

or to perform a live replication

between a production and test accounts,

so, you have your own test environment.

Okay, so that's it about replication.

I will see you in the next lecture for some practice.

Lesson 137>>>>>>>>>
Hey, so just a few notes

about Amazon S3 Replications.

So after you enable Replication, as you've seen,

only new objects are going to be replicated.

And if you want to replicate existing objects,

then you need to use the S3 Batch Replication feature.

So this will replicate the existing objects

and the objects that have failed Replication,

and in case you have delete operations,

you can replicate these delete markers

from the source bucket to the target bucket.

It's an optional setting, but if you have a deletion

with the version ID, they are not replicated,

so if it's a permanent deletion,

because you want to avoid malicious deletes happening

from one bucket to another.

Finally, there's no chaining of replications.

So that means that if bucket one

has replication to bucket two,

and then, bucket two has replication to bucket three,

then the objects of bucket one

are not replicated into the bucket three, so that's it.

I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

Lesson 138>>>>>>>>>
So let's practice replication

on Amazon S3.

For this, we're going to create a new bucket.

I'll call it s3-stephane-bucket-origin-v2.

And I will set it in one region that I want,

for example, eu-west-1.

This will be my origin bucket

and then data will be replicated

from this bucket to another bucket.

So the thing I need to do, of course,

is to enable versioning

because replication only works

if versioning is enabled.

So I will create this bucket.

And then open this bucket in a new tab.

And I will create a second bucket

and this will be my target bucket.

So I will do s3-stephane-bucket-replica-v2.

And this time, the region can be either the same,

for example, if you wanted to do same region replication

or something completely different,

for example, if you wanted the US,

you could do us-east-1

to replicate from Europe to the US.

Okay, so let's scroll down

and let's again enable bucket versioning

on the target bucket.

And we're good to go.

So now we have our primary bucket

and our secondary bucket.

What I'm going to do is that in the origin bucket,

I'm going to upload a file,

so I will add a file of my beach, for example.

Beach.jpg.

Okay, this is done and we can close this.

So now this has one file

but, of course, this does not get replicated yet

because we haven't set up replication yet.

So let's go ahead and do this.

So on the origin bucket,

what I need to do is to go under Management,

scroll down and there are replication rules.

Currently zero.

So let's go ahead and create our first replication rule.

So I'll call this one DemoReplicationRule.

Okay, perfect.

We'll set it as enabled.

For the source bucket, we'll leave it as is

and in terms of rule scope,

we'll apply it to all objects in the bucket.

Now, for the destination,

we can specify a bucket in this account

or another account.

And we'll choose one in this account.

And the bucket name is my target bucket.

So I need to actually enter the name.

So we'll take this bucket right here,

copy and paste it.

Okay, and as you can see,

the destination region was identified

as being us-east-1.

So therefore, this is a Cross-Region Replication.

Okay.

Now for IAM role,

we need to actually go and create a new role for this.

So here's the option.

And then we can have a look at some settings

but for now it doesn't really matter for us.

Let's just save this.

So we get a prompt right here,

which says do you want to replicate existing objects?

So it turns out that when you do enable replication,

it will only replicate objects

from the moment you set it.

So for newer uploads.

So if you wanted to replicate the previous objects

from the source to the destination bucket,

you could use something called a Batch Operation,

an S3 Batch Operation to do so

and you would need to say yes, replicate existing objects.

But this is separate

from the replication feature itself.

Therefore, I'm going to say no,

do not replicate existing objects.

And we're good to go.

So now let's have a look.

So we have this Management

with a replication rule that is ready.

And now what I'm going to do

is check in my replica bucket.

Of course, if I refresh now,

we see that the objects haven't been replicated.

So I'm going to do is now upload a new file,

for example, upload the coffee.jpg file.

Upload it.

We're done.

So here is the coffee.jpg file.

Let's show the versions.

So this is coffee.jpg and the version is GBk.

Okay, perfect.

Now if we go in my target bucket, and refresh this,

it's gonna take maybe five seconds.

And this took about 10 seconds on the first replication

but we can see that my coffee.jpg

has been added into my replica bucket.

And if I show the versions,

we can see that the version ID of my coffee.jpg

is the exact same of the origin bucket.

So the version's IDs are replicated,

which is great.

And if I wanted to import the beach.jpg,

I would need to upload a new version of that file.

So let's upload beach.jpg again.

Now this has been uploaded,

we can look at the versions,

so there is a new version right here

of DK2 of my beach.jpg file.

And now if I go here and refresh,

now let's look at one more setting

that is important for your exam.

So if I go back into Management,

and take this and edit this role,

we can scroll down and have a look

at one setting called the delete marker replication.

So by default, delete markers

are not replicated

but there's a feature to do so.

So if you enable delete marker replication,

then they will be replicated from one bucket to another.

So let's save this.

So my replication rules have been saved.

And so that means that if I go in this bucket,

and I choose to delete this file, for example,

I delete my coffee.jpg file, let's delete it.

This will actually create a delete marker

because my bucket is versioned.

We're done.

So now my coffee.jpg is deleted.

And let's have a look in here.

So let's refresh and we need to wait little bit.

And now you can see that the delete marker

has been replicated to my replica bucket.

So if I don't show version,

I don't see my coffee.jpg file

but of course, if I show versions, I will see it.

This is true here.

And of course, this is true here as well.

So the delete markers are deleted

but if you decide to delete a specific version

of a file, for example,

I delete this one, which is I delete a specific version ID.

So this is called the permanent delete.

And if I permanently delete one object

in my origin bucket,

it will not be replicated to my replica bucket.

So this beach.jpg here will never be deleted

because only delete markers are replicated,

not deletes, okay?

So that's it for this lecture.

I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

Lesson 139>>>>>>>>>
Okay, so let's discuss

different storage classes we have for Amazon S three.

The first one is Amazon S three Standard-General Purpose.

Then we have Amazon S three-Infrequent Access.

Then we have Amazon S three One Zone-Infrequent Access.

Then we have Glacier Instant Retrieval,

Glacier Flexible Retrieval, Glacier Deep Archive,

and then finally, the Amazon S three Intelligent Tiering.

So we'll learn about all these classes in depth

in this lecture, but you have to know them for the exam.

Then when you create an object in Amazon S three,

you can choose its class,

you can also modify its storage class manually,

or as we'll see as well,

you can use Amazon S3 Lifecycle configurations

to move objects automatically

between all these storage classes.

So first, before we go into the classes,

let's define the concept of durability and availability.

So durability represents how many times an object

is going to be lost by Amazon S three.

And so Amazon S three has a very high durability.

It's called 11 nines.

So nine nine point and then nine times nine percent.

And that means that on average,

if you store 10 million objects on Amazon S three,

you can expect to lose a single object

once every 10,000 years.

So it's quite durable.

And the durability is the same

for all storage classes in Amazon S three.

Availability represents how readily a service is.

And so this depends on the storage class.

For example, S three Standard has a 99.99% availability.

That means that about 53 minutes a year,

the service is not going to be available.

That means that you'll get some errors

when you deal with the service.

So you need to take that into account

when you develop your applications.

Okay.

So S3 standard has 99.99 availability.

It's going to be used for frequently accessed data.

This is the kind of storage you use by default,

and it has low latency and high throughputs.

It can sustain two concurrent facility failures

on the side of AWS and the use cases for it

is going to be big data analytics,

mobile and gaming application,

as well as content distribution.

Next, we have S three infrequent access.

So this is data that is going to be as the name indicates,

less frequently accessed,

but requires rapid access when needed.

It's going to be lower cost than S three Standard,

but you will have a cost on retrieval.

So the S three Standard-IA is 99.9% availability,

so a bit less available.

And the use case for it is going to be Disaster Recovery

and backups.

And Amazon S three One Zone-Infrequent access, One Zone-IA.

ESC has high durability, okay, within a single AZ only,

and the data is going to be lost

if the AZ is somewhat destroyed.

As well as durability, it's even lower.

So it's 99.5% availability.

And so the use cases of S three One Zone-IA

is to store secondary copy of backups

of maybe on-premises data, or data you can recreate.

Next we have the Glacier Storage Classes.

So Glacier is, as the name it gets very cold,

so it's low cost object storage

meant for archiving and backup.

And the pricing is that you're going to pay for the storage

plus pay for a retrieval cost.

In your three classes of storage within Glacier,

you have the Amazon S three Glacier Instant Retrieval.

And this gives you milliseconds retrieval

which is great for example,

for data that's accessed once a quarter,

and the minimum store duration is 90 days.

So this is backup,

but you need to access it within milliseconds.

Then we have the Glacier Flexible Retrieval.

It used to be called Amazon S three Glacier

but then they renamed things as they added more tier.

So the Amazon Glacier Flexible Retrieval

has three flexibility.

So you have expedited where you get the data back

between one and five minutes.

You have standard to get the data back

between three to five hours, or bulk, which is free,

where you get data back between five to 12 hours.

And the minimum storage duration as well is 90 days.

So here, instance means you retrieve data instantly

and flexible means that you're willing

to wait up to for example, 12 hours to retrieve your data.

And then we have Glacier Deep Archive

which is meant for long term storage.

So we have two tiers of retrieval as well.

We have Standard of 12 hours and Bulk of 48 hours.

So you may be ready to wait a lot of time

to retrieve data,

but it's going to give you the lowest cost,

and as well, the minimum storage duration is 180 days.

So as you know, that's a lot of storage classes

and there's one last called S three Intelligent- Tiering,

which is going to allow you to move objects

between excess tiers based on usage patterns.

And for this, you're going to incur a small

monthly monitoring fee, and auto tiering fee.

And there are no retrieval charges

in S three Intelligent- Tiering.

So there is the frequent access tier that's automatic

the default tier.

Then we have the Infrequent Access tier

for objects not accessed for example, for 30 days.

Then you have the Archive Instant Access tier,

automatic as well for objects not accessed over 90 days.

And then the Archive Access tier that's optional.

And you can configure it from 90 days to 700 plus days.

And then you have the Deep Archive Access tier

also optional, that you can configure for objects

that haven't been accessed between 180 days

to 700 plus days.

Okay.

So S three Intelligent-Tiering is really

to allow you to just sit back and relax

while S three moves objects for you.

So if you compare all the storage classes

you don't need to remember these numbers,

but it's just for you to make sense of what they are.

So you get durability of 11 nine's everywhere.

Then as availability goes down, the less zones you have,

of course.

It just shows you like for example

the minimum storage duration chart and so on.

So take some time to look at this diagram on your own.

You should understand it,

but you should not remember it for sure.

So if we look at some pricing, for example

in the us-east-one,

so this is the kind of pricing you would have

for all the storage classes.

And again, you're not supposed to remember everything.

But it's good for you to have a look at it

on your own time, just to make sure you understand.

Because if you understand what the classes name are,

then you should be able to make sense of these classes.

Okay?

So that's it for the lecture.

I hope you liked it.

And I will see you in the next lecture.

Lesson 140>>>>>>>>>
So let's create a new bucket industry

and call it "s3-storage-classes-demos-2022."

Okay. Then I create into any kinda region,

and I will go ahead and just create this bucket.

So back in my bucket, I can go ahead

and upload a object, and click on add files.

I will choose my coffee.JPEG.

And let's have a look at the options.

So we can look at the properties

of that object,

and under storage class, I get the wide range

of storage class that are for AWS objects.

So we have S3 standard, okay,

and we get the design four column.

How many AZ's we have,

as well as some other (indistinct)

the minimum storage duration,

minimum billable object size,

and monitoring and auto-tiering fees.

So let's have a look at all of them.

So we have standard, which is the basic ones by default.

Then we get intelligent tiering,

in case we don't know our data patterns,

and therefore we want AWS

to perform the data tiering for us.

Standard-IA, if we want data to be infrequently accessed,

but still with low latency.

One-Zone-IA,

which is that you can recreate this data,

and it's going to be stored in one AZ only.

And therefore you can

run the risk of losing the object,

if the AZ is destroyed.

Then we have three glacier levels.

So we have Glacier Instant Retrieval,

Glacier Flexible Retrieval,

or a Glacier Deep Archive,

and it tells you exactly

what are the conditions in here.

And finally, Reduced Redundancy,

which is a deprecated type of storage tier,

and therefore I did not describe it in the course.

So what if we go with standard IA

for example, and create an object there.

So we're going there,

and then we're going to say upload.

Back in our bucket.

So now this object has the storage class, Standard-IA,

as it is shown here.

But what I can do is

that I can also change the storage class

if I wanted to.

So I can go into properties and scroll down,

and we can actually edit the storage class

to do something different.

So we can move it for example,

to One-Zone-IA,

in which case this object is going

to be stored in one zone only.

So let's save these changes.

And now my object has successfully been edited

and therefore the object class has changed.

So if we scroll down, now we are in One-Zone-IA.

And again, you could edit it,

and go, for example, for Glacier-Instant-Retrieval.

And now it's going to be archived,

or you can go for Intelligent-Tiering,

and it could be automatically set

to the right tier based on our patterns, and so on.

So you can see there's a lot of power using storage classes.

And finally,

I want to show you how we can automate moving these objects

between the different storage classes.

So let's go back

into our buckets, and there under management,

you can create lifecycle rules.

And you can create a rule,

and we'll call this one "DemoRule."

And then you're going to say,

"hey," apply to all objects in the buckets.

Yeah, sure.

And then we can say, okay

move current versions between storage classes.

And you're saying, hey, you go

to Standard-IA after, for example, 30 days.

And then you go to Intelligent-Tiering after 60 days.

And then you would go to Glacier-Flexible-Retrieval

after 180 days,

and so on.

So you get some transitions.

And in here you can review

all the transitions you have done.

So it is possible

for you to automate moving objects between tiers.

Okay. So that's it,

we've seen everything we need to know about storage classes.

I hope you liked it.

And I will see you in the next lecture.

Lesson 141>>>>>>>>>
So here's one more storage class,

but I wanted to make a separate lecture for it

because it's a bit different than the other ones.

So the S3 Express One Zone storage class

is high performance,

but for a single availability zone type of storage class.

What does that mean?

That means that your objects are stored

not on the standard bucket on S3,

but in what's called a directory bucket,

and it's a special type of S3 bucket.

But this bucket, instead of being distributed

across multiple availability zone,

it's going to be in a single availability zone only,

and you get to choose which one you want it to be in.

So it's a different kind of bucket,

and that's why there is a different kind

as well of storage class.

So it's a very specific use case, but the idea is that

because you are in a single AZ,

then you're going to be able to handle

hundreds of thousands of requests per second

with single digit millisecond latency,

so very high performance.

You get about 10 times the performance of S3 standard

with about 50% lower the cost.

So good durability, but the availability is of course lower

because now instead of being three availability zones

with some replication, you only have one availability zone.

And of course, if there is a problem on this AZ,

you're going to be directly affected.

So the idea of using S3 Express One Zone is

that you're gonna be able to co-locate your storage

and compute resources in the same availability zone

and therefore reduce latency

and maybe even reduce your networking cost.

So the use cases are for latency sensitive apps,

for data intensive apps, for AI and ML training,

financial modeling, media processing,

and high performance computing,

and it's best integrated with, for example,

with SageMaker Model Training, Athena, EMR, Glue,

all these kind of data services.

All right, so that's it for this lecture.

I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.


Lesson 142>>>>>>>>>
So now let's talk

about how we can move objects

between different storage classes

so you can transition them,

and this is a diagram of how it's possible.

So as you can see,

you can go from the Standard, for example,

to Standard IA to Intelligent Tiering to One-Zone IA,

and then from One-Zone IA, as you can see,

you can go to Flexible Retrieval or Deep Archive.

And so all the types

of permutations are shown in this graph.

So as a matter of fact, if you know

that your objects are going to be infrequently accessed,

then move them to Standard IA.

And if you know that you're going to archive objects,

move them into the Glacier

of tiers or the Deep Archive tier.

Now, moving these objects can be done manually, of course,

but we can automate this using lifecycle rules.

So these lifecycle rules are made of multiple things.

The first thing is a transition action

to configure the object

to transition to another storage class.

For example, you say move

to Standard IA class after 60 days after creations

or move to Glacier for archiving after six months.

You can also set up expiration actions.

So configure objects to be deleted,

to be expired after some time.

For example, your access log files,

you want to delete them after 365 days.

Or you can, for example,

use an expiration action to delete old versions

of files if you have enabled versioning.

Or we can use this to delete incomplete multi-part uploads

if, for example, the multi-part uploads is more

than two weeks old because, well,

the thing should have been fully uploaded by now.

The rules can also be specified for a certain prefix.

So they can apply to entire buckets

or to a specific path within your buckets.

And you can also specify it for specific object tags.

So if you want to only do a rule

for the department finance, you can.

So here's some scenarios.

For example, you have an application on EC2,

and it creates images, thumbnails

after profile photos are uploaded to Amazon S3.

But these thumbnails, they can be easily recreated

from the original photo

and they only need to be kept for 60 days.

But the source images, they should be able

to be immediately retrieved for these 60 days

and afterwards the user can wait up to six hours.

So how would you design this?

This is what an exam question will ask you.

So the S3 source images can be on the Standard class

with a lifecycle configuration to transition them

to Glacier after 60 days and the thumbnails images,

so this is how you would use a prefix to differentiate

between source and thumbnails, for example.

So the thumbnails can be on One-Zone IA

because well, they're infrequently accessed,

and they can be recreated easily,

and you can have a lifecycle configuration to expire them

or delete them after 60 days.

Another scenario, so a rule

in your company states that you should be able

to recover deleted S3 objects immediately for 30 days,

although this may happen rarely.

After this time, for up to 365 days,

deleted objects should be recoverable within 48 hours.

For this, we can enable S3 versioning in order to keep

and have object versions so that the deleted objects

are in fact hidden by a delete marker

and then can be recovered.

And then you will create a rule to transition

the non-current versions of the objects to Standard IA.

So that means the versions

that are not the top level versions,

and then transition afterwards these non-current versions

to Glacier Deep Archive for archival purposes.

Lastly, how do we determine what's the optimal number

of days to transition an object from one class to another?

Well, you can do this thanks to Amazon S3 Analytics.

So it's going to give you recommendations

for Standard and for Standard IA.

It does not work with One-Zone IA or Glacier.

And so the S3 buckets

will have S3 Analytics run on top of it.

And this will create a CSV report

that will give you some recommendations and some statistics.

The report is going to be updated daily

and then it can take between 24 to 48 hours

to start seeing data analysis coming out of it.

So this is a good first step, this CSV report

to put together lifecycle rules that makes sense

or to improve them.

Okay, so that's it for this lecture.

I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.


Lesson 143>>>>>>>>>
So let's go ahead

and create a lifecycle rule for our buckets.

So let's go under management and create a lifecycle rule.

This one is going to be called demo rule, and we apply it

to all the objects in the buckets and I acknowledge it.

Okay, so we can see we have five different rule actions.

We can move current versions

of objects between storage classes,

non-current versions of objects between classes,

expired current versions of objects,

permanently delete non-current versions of objects,

and finally delete expired objects, delete markers

or incomplete multi-part upload.

So five different use cases.

Let's have a look at them one by one.

So to move current version objects between storage classes

that means that you have a version bucket, and

the current version is the version that is the most recent

the one displayed to the user.

So for example, we can transition

to standard IA after 30 days.

Then we can go into intelligent tier after 60 days.

Then we can go into

say glacier after 90 days for instant retrieval.

Then after 180 days flexible retrieval

and then maybe deep archive after 365 days.

So you can have a transition as much as you want.

Okay?

And we need to take this back to acknowledge what we do.

We can also, for example

move non-current versions so faster.

So this one, we want to move an object that is non-current

therefore an object that has been overridden

quote unquote by near one.

So we can say, okay, this one

we wanna move it into glacier flexible because we know

that after 90 days we won't need it for retrieval.

So this is perfect and we're good to go

but we could add more transitions.

And for example

we want to expire current versions of objects after,

and at the bottom you can set it up after 700 days.

And same for the non-current options.

We want to permanently delete them after 700 days as well.

Okay, so this is something we can do

and now we can have a look

at all these transitions and expiration actions.

So this is nice because it shows you a timeline

of what is going to happen to your current version

and your non-current versions of your objects.

So if we're happy with all of this, we can just go ahead

and create this role, and this role will act

in the background to do what it's supposed to be doing.

So that's it.

Now you know how to automate moving objects

in AWS free between different source classes.

I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

Lesson 144>>>>>>>>>
So here is a feature that you may get tested on

at the exam.

And this is called S3 Requester Pays.

And the name is quite obvious.

So, in general, from what we've seen,

the bucket owners will pay for all of the Amazon S3 storage

and also the data-transfer costs associated

with their buckets.

So let's take an example.

We have a set of buckets,

we're storing some objects in it,

and then a requester, so, a user will download a file

from our bucket.

And then what happens is that

the networking cost is also being billed

to the owner of the bucket and the objects, okay?

But, in case you are having a lot of heavy files

and some of the customers want to download them,

maybe you want to enable Requester Pays buckets.

And in that case, the requester will pay

instead of the bucket owner

for the data download of the objects.

So let's take an example again.

The owner still will pay for the storage costs

of the objects within the bucket,

but now the requester will download the object

and the requester will be the one paying

for the networking costs associated with that download.

The idea is that this is very helpful if you want to

start sharing large data sets with other accounts.

And for it to do so,

the requester must not be anonymous, okay?

The requester must be authenticated

in AWS because when it is authenticated with AWS,

then AWS knows to bill the requester of that request

for that specific download of the object, okay?

So that's it, just a feature to remember.

It can come up in the exam in a scenario.

I hope you liked it,

and I will see you in the next lecture.

Lesson 145>>>>>>>>>
So now let's talk about S3 Event Notifications.

And the idea is that your events

are going to happen in Amazon S3.

What are events?

Well, events are things such as an object is created,

or an object is removed, or an object is restored,

or there is replication happening.

And you can filter these events.

So you can say I only want to consider the objects

that end with JPEG.

So the use case for Event Notification will be, for example,

to automatically react to certain events

happening in Amazon S3.

For example, you want to generate thumbnails

of all the images upload to Amazon S3.

Therefore, you're going to create your Event Notification.

And then you can send it to a couple of destinations.

It could be an SNS topic, it could be an SQS queue,

and a Lambda function.

And don't worry if you don't know this by now,

we will learn about these features in the next lectures.

So you can create as many S3 events as desired,

and you can send them to whatever target you want.

So the idea is that these events

are typically delivered within seconds

to these destinations,

but sometimes it can take a minute or longer.

Now, for the Event Notifications to work,

we need to have IAM permissions.

So the S3 service is sending data

into an SNS topic, for example.

So to make this possible, we need to attach

what's called an SNS resource access policy.

This is a IAM policy you attach to the SNS topic,

and this will allow the S3 bucket

to send messages directly into the SNS topic.

Similarly, if we use SQS,

we create an SQS resource access policy,

which authorizes the S3 service to send data

into our SQS queue.

And finally, for Lambda function, you will have guessed,

we need a Lambda resource policy

attached to our Lambda function

to make sure that Amazon S3

has the right to invoke our function.

So here we don't use IAM roles for Amazon S3.

Instead, we define resource access policies

on the SNS topic, on the SQS queue,

or on the Lambda function.

And they function similarly

to what we had when we were using an S3 bucket policy.

So you have to remember SNS, SQS, and lambda function

as Event Notifications targets.

But now, there's a fourth integration

you need to also learn about.

So your events are going into your Amazon S3 buckets.

And all the events end up in Amazon Event Bridge

no matter what.

So all of them, okay?

And then from Event Bridge that you don't know yet,

but you can set up rules.

And from Event Bridge,

you can, thanks to these rules, send these events

to over 18 different AWS services as destinations.

So it really enhances the capability

of S3 Event Notification.

And again, we'll see Event Bridge later on this course,

but with Event Bridge,

you get advanced filtering options

a lot more than what we had from before.

So you can filter by metadata, object, size, and name.

You can send to multiple destinations at the time.

You can say, for example, to Step Functions,

Kinesis Data Streams, or Firehose,

or you even get the features

coming straight from Amazon Event Bridge.

So you can archive events, replay events,

and you get more reliable delivery.

Okay, there's a lot you don't know in this lecture

around the news services,

but let's just focus on Amazon S3 Event Notifications.

The idea is that you can react to events

happening in Amazon S3,

thanks to sending it to SQS, SNS, Lambda,

or Amazon Event Bridge.

Okay, that's it.

I will see you in the next lecture.


Lesson 146>>>>>>>>>
Okay, so let's go ahead

and demonstrate S3 Event Notifications.

For this, I'm going to create a bucket.

I call it "stephane-v3-events-notifications"

and then when Ireland's...

and I will just go ahead and create my bucket altogether.

Okay. So now bucket is created.

I'm going to go into it.

And what I'm going to do now

is make sure that event notifications are set up.

So I go to properties,

scroll down and then, here we have event notifications.

And as you can see, we have two options.

Number one is to create an event notification,

and I will show you this in a second,

or number two is to enable

the Amazon EventBridge integration

to send all the events

from this S3 bucket into EventBridge.

And for this, you just you set it on

and you'll be good to go.

So it is something that now if I wanted to,

I could use Amazon EventBridge

to catch the events happening in my S3 buckets.

But I will show you the simpler way

because it's a bit more complicated,

is to just create an event notification

and send it for example to SQS.

So I'll call this one "DemoEventNotification"

and then we can set up a prefix, a suffix,

but I won't do it.

And next, we to choose event types.

So we want to react to all object create events.

So that means that any time an object is created,

then an event is going to be created.

But if you wanted to, you could get more granular

and select which type of events you wanted.

But to keep it simple, I'll take it here.

And you can also include for example,

object removals, object restores,

and it shows you all the events you can catch

on the right hand side.

So I'll keep it simple.

I'm just going to scroll down,

but as you can see,

there are a lot of different events

you can react to in Amazon S3.

And then, you want to publish to a destination.

And so we have three options.

We have Lambda functions, SNS topic, and SQS queue.

And I'm going to choose SQS queue

but we first need to create a queue,

and then authorize Amazon S3

to publish messages into that destination.

So what I'm going to do now

is just go into Amazon SQS and then create a queue.

And I call this one "DemoS3Notification."

I will go ahead and create this queue.

And it's created.

So now wanting to do is to enhance the access policy

to allow my S3 bucket to write into my SQS queue.

So to do so, let me first demonstrate the problem.

So if I go back here

and I am going to refresh this page to see my queue appear.

So I refresh it and I say DemoS3Events.

All object created, and then scroll down

and then choose the SQS queue.

I can choose the queue ARN.

Sorry. I could choose queue here in the dropdown,

DemoS3Notification.

And if I try to save my changes,

I get an unknown error, which is saying that,

"Hey, you are not able to validate

the destination configuration

because this SQS queue does not accept yet messages

from my S3 buckets."

And so I need to change the access policy

by clicking on edits,

scroll down, here's my access policy.

And I need to go ahead and generate a new policy.

So I go to Policy Generator.

It's going to be an SQS queue policy.

And the effect is allow anyone, just to be very permissive,

to do a send message.

And my Amazon resource name is right here.

I need to copy it and paste it.

I add a statement, and then generate this policy.

And now, this is the policy I wanna use

which allows anyone to write to my SQS queue.

So it's very, very permissive, but it will work.

Let's save this.

And now my access policy has been updated.

So now, if I go back here and try to save my changes,

as you can see, the operation was successfully completed.

And what happened is that if I go into my SQS queue

and click on send and receive messages,

and then click on poll for messages,

as you can see, a message was being sent by Amazon S3

which is to test event, to test the connectivity.

So what I can do is I can take this message and delete it.

So now we want to test whether or not

the S3 Event Notification is working with SQS.

So therefore we're going to upload an object,

click on add files and choose our coffee, the JPEG.

I will upload this file.

Now the file has been uploaded.

And if I go into my bucket,

I can indeed see that my coffee, the JPEG, has been created.

And imagine we wanted to automate this

and create a thumbnail from it.

Then, we will need to have a message into our SQS queue

to then process it and create a thumbnail.

Therefore, I'm going to pull for messages.

And as you can see, a message was created here.

And if you look at the message itself,

and I'm going to try to increase this window size,

we can see the fact that the "eventName"

was "ObjectCreatedPut"

So an object was indeed created.

And if we look deeper,

we're going to see that the key of that message

is coffee, the JPEG.

So the coffee, the JPEG, was created

and it generated a whole event into my SQS queue.

And therefore, that shows the power

of S3 Event Notifications.

What I can do here is I can delete the message

and we're done.

Okay. So that's it.

We've seen S3 Event Notifications.

What you need to remember again

is that you can send to SQS, SNS and Lambda,

as well as send all events to Amazon EventBridge

for further processing and sending it to more destinations.

Okay. That's it.

I will see you in the next lecture.


Lesson 147>>>>>>>>>
So, we have to talk about the S3 Baseline performance.

So, by default, Amazon S3 automatically scales

to a very, very high number of requests,

and has a very, very low S3 between 100 and 200 milliseconds

to get the first byte out of S3.

So, this is quite fast.

And in terms of how many requests per second you can get,

you can get 3,500 PUT/COPY/POST/DELETE,

per second, per prefix,

and 5,500 GET/HEAD requests

per second per prefix in the buckets.

So, this is something you can get on the website

and I think it's not very clear,

so I'll explain to you what per second per prefix means.

But what that means in viral is

that it's really, really high performance and,

there's no limits to the number of prefixes in your bucket.

So, let's take an example of four objects named file,

and let's analyze the prefix for that object.

The first one is in your bucket,

in folder one, sub folder one slash file.

In this case, the prefix is going to be anything

between the bucket and the file.

So, in this case it is slash folder one, slash sub one.

So, that means that for this file in this prefix,

you can get 3,500 Puts and 5,500 Gets per second.

Now, if we have another folder one and then sub two,

the prefix is anything between buckets and file,

so slash folder one slash sub two,

and so we get also 3,500 Puts and 5,500 Gets

for that one prefix, and so on.

So, if I have one and two we have different prefixes,

and so it's easy now to understand what a prefix is,

and so it's easy to understand the rule of 3,500 Puts

and 5,500 Gets per second per prefix in a bucket.

So, that means that if you spread reads

across all the four prefixes above evenly,

you can achieve 22,000 requests per second

for Head and Gets.

Now, let's talk about S3 performance,

how we can optimize it?

The first one is multi-part upload.

So, it is recommended to use multi-part upload

for files that are over 100 megabytes,

and it must be used for files that are over five gigabytes.

And what multi-part upload does is

that it parallelize uploads and that will help us

speed up the transfers to maximize the bandwidth.

So, as a diagram, it always makes more sense.

So, we have a byte file,

and we want to upload that file into Amazon S3.

We will divide it in parts, so smaller chunks of that files

and each of these files will be uploaded

in parallel to Amazon S3.

In Amazon S3, once all the parts have been uploaded,

it's smart enough to put them together

back into the big file.

Okay, very important.

Now, we have S3 transfer acceleration,

which is for upload and download

and it is to increase the transfer speed

by transferring a file to an AWS edge location,

which will forward the data to the S3 bucket

in the target region.

So, edge locations there are more than regions.

There are about over 200 edge locations today,

and it's growing,

and let me show you in the graph what that means?

And that's S3 transfer acceleration

is compatible with multi-part upload.

So, let's have a look.

We have a file in the United States of America,

and we want to upload it to S3 bucket in Australia.

So, what this will do is that we will upload that file

through an edge location in the United States,

which will be very, very quick,

and then we'll be using the public internet.

And then from that edge location

to the Amazon S3 bucket in Australia,

the edge location will transfer it

over the fast, private AWS network.

So, this is called transfer acceleration,

because we minimized the amount of public internet

that we go through and we maximized the amount

of private AWS network that we go through.

So, transfer acceleration

is a great way to speed up transfers.

Okay, now how about getting files?

How about reading the file in the most efficient way?

We have something called an S3 Byte Range Fetches,

and so it is to paralyze Gets,

by getting specific byte ranges for your files.

So, it's also in case you have a failure

to get a specific byte range,

then you can retry a smaller byte range

and you have better resilience in case of failures.

So, it can be used to speed up downloads this time.

So, let's try a file in S3, it's really, really big

and this is the file.

Maybe you want to request the first part,

which is the first few bytes of the file,

then the second part and then the end parts.

So, we request all these parts

as specific bytes range fetches,

that's why it's called byte range,

because we only request a specific range of the file.

And all these requests can be made in parallel.

So, the idea is that we can parallelize the Gets

and speed up the downloads.

The second use case is to only retrieve

a partial amount of the file.

For example, if you know that the first 50 bytes

of the file in S3 are a header

and give you some information about the file,

then you can just issue a header request

to byte range request for the headers

using the first say 50 bytes,

and you would get that information very quickly.

All right, so that's it for S3 performance.

We've seen how to speed up uploads-downloads.

We've seen the baseline performance

and we've seen the KMS limits.

So, make sure you know those going into the exam

and I will see you in the next lecture.


Lesson 148>>>>>>>>>
So now, let's talk about

the S3 batch operation.

So this allows you to perform bulk operations

on existing S3 objects with a single request.

For example, and there are lots of use cases for it,

you can modify all the object metadata

and properties of many S3 objects at a time.

Or you can copy objects between S3 buckets

as a batch operation.

Or something that can come up in the exam,

is to encrypt all the unencrypted objects

in your S3 buckets.

Or to modify ACLs or tags,

or to restore many objects at a time from S3 Glacier.

Or to invoke a Lambda function

to perform whatever custom action you want on every object

from your S3 batch operation.

So the idea is that you can do whatever operation you want

on the list of objects.

And so, therefore, a job consists of a list of objects,

the action to perform, as well as optional parameters.

So why would we use S3 batch operations

versus scripting it ourselves?

Well, because when we use the S3 batch operation,

there is a management of retries, we can track the progress.

We can send completion notifications,

generate reports, and so on.

And, well, how to generate a list to pass to S3 Batch?

Well, we can use S3 Inventory

to get your object list in an S3 bucket.

And then you use Athena to query that list,

and filter the objects you actually wanna pass

to the S3 batch service.

So using S3 Inventory and then Athena,

we get a filtered list of objects

that we want to include in our batch operation.

We pass it to the batch operation,

plus whatever operation we wanna do,

as well as some parameters.

And then S3 Batch will do its thing and process the objects.

So, again, one main use case is to find

all the unencrypted objects using S3 Inventory.

And then encrypt them all at once

using an S3 batch operation.

So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it,

and I will see you in the next lecture.

Lesson 149>>>>>>>>>
Next, we have S3 Storage Lens, which is a service

to help you understand, analyze, and optimize

storage across your entire AWS Organization.

With this, you're going to discover anomalies,

identify cost efficiencies,

and you're going to apply protection

best practices across your entire AWS Organization.

You're going to get 30-day usage and activity metrics.

You can aggregate the data at the organization

level or for specific accounts, regions,

buckets, or even prefixes.

You can create your own dashboard or use

a default dashboard provided by the Storage Lens service.

And finally, all these metrics,

all these reports can be exported into an

S3 bucket in the CSV or Parquet format.

So to summarize, Storage Lens will take all

these things into account, organization,

accounts, region, buckets.

Then you aggregate all this data into a report,

which is going to help you with your analysis.

And then finally, this can be sent for summary insights,

data protection, cost efficiency, which allows you

to optimize your usage of Amazon S3.

So when you use the S3 Storage Lens service,

you have a default dashboard

and the dashboard gives you summarized insights

and trends for both the free and the advanced metrics.

This default dashboard will show data across multiple

regions and across multiple accounts.

So you don't have to do anything special just

to set up the filters.

It is pre-configured by Amazon S3.

You cannot delete the default dashboard,

but you can disable it, if you wanted to.

So in this UI right here, you would select

the region you want, the accounts you want,

the buckets you want, storage classes, and so on.

And this is a centralized configuration.

And then once you have that,

the dashboard right here gives you information

such as, for example, the total storage,

the objects count, the average object size,

the number of buckets you have, accounts,

and you can get detailed per accounts,

or per region.

So let's have a look at what kind

of metrics are available into Storage Lens,

because this will help you understand if Storage Lens

is a service you should be choosing for the exam.

So you have summary metrics which give you general

insights about your S3 storage.

For example, storage bytes to know the size

of your storage and object counts to know

how many objects you have in your storage.

So use cases for this is to identify, for example,

the fastest-growing or not used bucket and prefixes,

because if the storage bytes remains the same,

that means that no new objects have been added

or same for object counts.

Then you have cost optimization metrics

and they provide you insights to manage

and optimize your storage cost.

So they give you an information about the non-current

version storage bytes, meaning how many version objects

that are not current,

how much space they're actually taking,

or incomplete multi-part upload storage bytes.

You know, if for example,

you've had some incomplete uploads,

how much space they take

in your bucket and you can clean it.

So the use cases will be, for example,

to see which buckets have failed multi-part uploads,

or which objects could be transitioned

to lower-cost storage classes.

You have data protection metrics to provide insights

for data protection features.

So here we have versioning enabled bucket counts

to make sure that all your buckets have been

enabled with versioning and so on.

MFA, delete enabled bucket counts.

SSCKMS enable bucket counts, cross replication

region rules, counts, and so on.

So the use cases are, for example, to identify

the buckets which are not following your data

protection best practices.

You have access management metrics to provide

insights for S3 bucket ownership.

So here's the name of the metric

and the use cases will be to identify which object

ownership settings your buckets currently use.

You have event metrics to get insights

for S3 event notifications

and to know how many buckets have the S3 event

notifications configured.

You have performance metrics

to get insights into S3 transfer acceleration

and see how many buckets have

S3 transfer acceleration enabled.

And you have activity metrics such

as information about all requests, get requests,

put requests, the number of bytes downloaded and so on.

And finally, metrics around the HTTP status code

such as 200OK, 403 Forbidden, et cetera, et cetera,

to understand the type of usage

your buckets are getting.

Now, you have different kinds of metrics

in two Storage Lens, you have the free

and the paid metrics.

So the metrics selection can be done in the UI as well.

But just as a summary,

while the three metrics are automatically available

to all customers, and it contains around 28 usage metrics,

and the data is available for queries for 14 days,

whereas for advanced metrics and recommendations,

you get additional paid metrics and features

such as the activity, the advanced cost optimization,

the advanced data protection and status codes.

And then you get also these metrics being

published to CloudWatch.

So you can access them without any additional charges.

And then you can collect metrics at the prefix

level within your S3 buckets.

And finally, the data when you pay,

is available for 15 months.

So that's it for S3 Storage Lens.

It's a very helpful service.

You have to remember the difference

between free and paid.

You have to remember that the default dashboard

has data across multiple accounts and multiple regions.

And of course, the fact that Storage Lens

covers your object storage, the fact that you can

count how many objects are encrypted and so on.

So let's say for this lecture, I hope you liked it

and I will see you in the next lecture.


Lesson 150>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 151>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 152>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 153>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 154>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 155>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 156>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 157>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 158>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 159>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 160>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 161>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 162>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 163>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 164>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 165>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 166>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 167>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 168>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 169>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 167>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 169>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 170>>>>>>>>>
Lesson 171>>>>>>>>>
